README.md, before:

# Data_Science_And_Statistics


This repository documents my **Data Science learning journey**, showcasing projects, exercises, and notebooks that demonstrate practical skills in Python, data analysis, and foundational data science techniques.  

It will continue to grow as I add more projects, datasets, and experiments over time.

---

##  Current Highlight: Efficient Data Acquisition with Pandas

This notebook demonstrates **the first critical step in Data Science: acquiring and understanding data**. Key concepts covered include:

- **Streamlined Data Ingestion:** Load datasets from CSV, Excel, JSON, and other formats  
- **Quick Data Assessment:** Inspect datasets with `.head()`, `.shape`, `.describe()`  
- **Building a Strong Foundation:** Create workflows for clean, reliable data ready for analysis  

The principle is simple: **clean data in → quality insights out**. 

---

##  Tools & Libraries

- **Python 3.x**  
- **Pandas** for data manipulation  
- **Jupyter Notebook** for interactive exploration  

---

## 📂 Repository Structure

Commit message:

Add exploration instructions to README
Added instructions on how to explore the repository.

README.md, after:

# Data_Science_And_Statistics


This repository documents my **Data Science learning journey**, showcasing projects, exercises, and notebooks that demonstrate practical skills in Python, data analysis, and foundational data science techniques.  

It will continue to grow as I add more projects, datasets, and experiments over time.

---

##  Current Highlight: Efficient Data Acquisition with Pandas

This notebook demonstrates **the first critical step in Data Science: acquiring and understanding data**. Key concepts covered include:

- **Streamlined Data Ingestion:** Load datasets from CSV, Excel, JSON, and other formats  
- **Quick Data Assessment:** Inspect datasets with `.head()`, `.shape`, `.describe()`  
- **Building a Strong Foundation:** Create workflows for clean, reliable data ready for analysis  

The principle is simple: **clean data in → quality insights out**. 

---

##  Tools & Libraries

- **Python 3.x**  
- **Pandas** for data manipulation  
- **Jupyter Notebook** for interactive exploration  

---

---

## 💻 How to Explore

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/vikaskushwaha97/Data_Science_And_Statistics.git
